About
Title: Systematic Serendipity:  A Test of Unsupervised Machine Learning as a Method for Anomaly Detection
Authors: Daniel Giles and Lucianne Walkowicz
Year: 2018
GitHub: https://github.com/d-giles/KeplerML

Summary
The authors explore unsupervised classification of Kepler objects using the Density-Based Spatial 
Clustering of Applications with Noise (DBSCAN) algorithm. This algorithm uses a nearest-neighbors approach
to identify outliers. DBSCAN utilizes values for the maximum separation in feature space between two points
to be associated with one another (epsilon) and the minimum number of associated members to qualify a point
as a core cluster member (k) in determining "core" versus "edge" cluster members. Note, these clusters were
evaluated in feature space, and they used features from a previous study of the same dataset. They 
considered Tabby's Star as a proof-of-concept case from which they could determine the effectiveness of 
their classifier. Their classification algorithm successfully identified Tabby's Star as an anomaly, 
although many identified anomalies were simply detection errors. They used t-SNE for resulting 
visualization.

Relevance
I was really interested in their use of DBSCAN, and I came to understand the power of feature
selection / extraction. Feature selection (in a way) bypasses the issue of irregular sampling by 
"standardizing" the information attributed to each light curve (all feature vectors are the same length, 
thus eliminating the risk of comparing sparse lightcurves with heavily-sampled ones). However, I imagine 
that irregular sampling makes the attributed features less reliable, so I still find feature extraction odd.
DBSCAN seems like an effective tool for clustering in feature space, especially regarding anomaly detection.

Further References
On Machine-Learned Classification of Variable Stars with Sparse and Noisy Time-Series Data:
https://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1959

Anomaly Detection: A Survey: 
https://www.vs.inf.ethz.ch/edu/HS2011/CPS/papers/chandola09_anomaly-detection-survey.pdf
